---
layout: post
title: "Composite Material"
description: "week 12"
category: Class_assignments
tags: [ping pong, tennis table, balsa, wood, linen, lino, composit materials, fabacademy]
imagefeature: composite_material.jpg
---

### Weekly_Assignments :

	-  


#####Useful links:

- [ping pong paddle dimension](http://sport-kid.net/ping-pong-paddle-dimensions.html)
- [1982 patent composite paddle](https://www.google.com/patents/US4324400?dq=table+tennis&hl=it&sa=X&ei=1kZTVfSOOMOvygOU-oHQCg&ved=0CC4Q6AEwAjge)
- [1902 patent!](https://www.google.com/patents/US1961473?dq=table+tennis+paddle&hl=it&sa=X&ei=Y0xTVaP7KImgsgH3r4GwBA&ved=0CEoQ6AEwBQ)

#####Materials

- ###### epoxy resin
- ###### Linen
- ###### Balsa sheet

#####Machine

- ###### Lasercut
-


****

#Project: ping pong paddle 

### introduction

****

Spring being in the air and hot weather arriving, I wanted to live again my long and hot hours spent playing tennis table in the very same room of the newborn FabLab Contea I run. 
I started looking for all the infos needed to build a tennis table paddle as professional as possible.
After investigating on the patents (almost all of them has expired) to check the correct measurements, I projected my own racket trying to suit the international rules (at least 80% wooden composition).
The composit project I am going to create will be linen, balsa and epoxy resin.


### Mill. Press. Form

Before proceeding with the laser cutting of the components, I wanted to create a sample. So I milled a positive and a negative of the racket, in order to better use the vacuum seal. 


### Laser parts
Since the layers forming my composit material project are very thin, I decided to cut them with the laser.
For me this is a new eperience, since I had never tried cutting fibers like linen with laser cut. 

### Milling the handle
The longest and most delicate milling is the one for the curved part of the handle.
It will be glued to the main body of the paddle.


****

#Building process

****

foto



##Final finishing

On the two faces of the paddle, where the surface is smooth, I will glue two sheets of plastic and rubber and put it again under pressure until the glue dries.


I now cut the exceeding parts of the sheets...and my own paddle is ready. 

 
****

#Conclusion

****

Since I was very young, I played tennis table with my father. He used to have his own paddle he made with his own hands, even if it was terrible and I was even unable to use it. I never really got over this. What a better payback than building my own paddle?


I wonder if my paddle suits the official rules of the International Tennis Table Federation (ITTS) or if it can be used in a regular championship...or in a match at my place?


#File


- [<i class="fa fa-floppy-o"></i> RGB_attiny44 code]({{ site.url }}/images/week/11/programming/rgb.zip)
- [<i class="fa fa-floppy-o"></i> SERVO_attiny44 code]({{ site.url }}/images/week/11/programming/servo.zip)
- [<i class="fa fa-file-image-o"></i> board.png]({{ site.url }}/images/week/11/board/board.png)
- [<i class="fa fa-file-image-o"></i> board_cut.png]({{ site.url }}/images/week/11/board/board_cut.png)
- [<i class="fa fa-floppy-o"></i> eagle schematic and board servo5RGB3.zip ]({{ site.url }}/images/week/11/eagle/servo5RGB3.zip)

